John 1:1	In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
John 1:2	The same was in the beginning with God.
John 1:3	All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.
John 1:4	In him was life; and the life was the light of men.
John 1:5	And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.
John 1:6	There was a man sent from God, whose name [was] John.
John 1:7	The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all [men] through him might believe.
John 1:8	He was not that Light, but [was sent] to bear witness of that Light.
John 1:9	[That] was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
John 1:10	He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.
John 1:11	He came unto his own, and his own received him not.
John 1:12	But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, [even] to them that believe on his name:
John 1:13	Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
John 1:14	And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
John 1:15	John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me.
John 1:16	And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.
John 1:17	For the law was given by Moses, [but] grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.
John 1:18	No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared [him].
John 1:19	And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?
John 1:20	And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.
John 1:21	And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No.
John 1:22	Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself?
John 1:23	He said, I [am] the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias.
John 1:24	And they which were sent were of the Pharisees.
John 1:25	And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet?
John 1:26	John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there standeth one among you, whom ye know not;
John 1:27	He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
John 1:28	These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.
John 1:29	The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.
John 1:30	This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me.
John 1:31	And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water.
John 1:32	And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him.
John 1:33	And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.
John 1:34	And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God.
John 1:35	Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples;
John 1:36	And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God!
John 1:37	And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
John 1:38	Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou?
John 1:39	He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was about the tenth hour.
John 1:40	One of the two which heard John [speak], and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother.
John 1:41	He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ.
John 1:42	And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.
John 1:43	The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.
John 1:44	Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
John 1:45	Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
John 1:46	And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see.
John 1:47	Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!
John 1:48	Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee.
John 1:49	Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel.
John 1:50	Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things than these.
John 1:51	And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.
John 2:1	And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:
John 2:2	And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage.
John 2:3	And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine.
John 2:4	Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come.
John 2:5	His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do [it].
John 2:6	And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.
John 2:7	Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
John 2:8	And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare [it].
John 2:9	When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,
John 2:10	And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: [but] thou hast kept the good wine until now.
John 2:11	This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
John 2:12	After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and they continued there not many days.
John 2:13	And the Jews’ passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem,
John 2:14	And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting:
John 2:15	And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers’ money, and overthrew the tables;
John 2:16	And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my Father’s house an house of merchandise.
John 2:17	And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.
John 2:18	Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things?
John 2:19	Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
John 2:20	Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days?
John 2:21	But he spake of the temple of his body.
John 2:22	When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them; and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.
John 2:23	Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast [day], many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he did.
John 2:24	But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all [men],
John 2:25	And needed not that any should testify of man: for he knew what was in man.
John 3:1	There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews:
John 3:2	The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him.
John 3:3	Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
John 3:4	Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother’s womb, and be born?
John 3:5	Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and [of] the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
John 3:6	That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
John 3:7	Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.
John 3:8	The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.
John 3:9	Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be?
John 3:10	Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?
John 3:11	Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness.
John 3:12	If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you [of] heavenly things?
John 3:13	And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, [even] the Son of man which is in heaven.
John 3:14	And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up:
John 3:15	That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
John 3:16	For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
John 3:17	For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.
John 3:18	He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
John 3:19	And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.
John 3:20	For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
John 3:21	But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.
John 3:22	After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized.
John 3:23	And John also was baptizing in AEnon near to Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, and were baptized.
John 3:24	For John was not yet cast into prison.
John 3:25	Then there arose a question between [some] of John’s disciples and the Jews about purifying.
John 3:26	And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all [men] come to him.
John 3:27	John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from heaven.
John 3:28	Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.
John 3:29	He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled.
John 3:30	He must increase, but I [must] decrease.
John 3:31	He that cometh from above is above all: he that is of the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven is above all.
John 3:32	And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; and no man receiveth his testimony.
John 3:33	He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true.
John 3:34	For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God: for God giveth not the Spirit by measure [unto him].
John 3:35	The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.
John 3:36	He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.
John 4:1	When therefore the Lord knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John,
John 4:2	(Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples,)
John 4:3	He left Judaea, and departed again into Galilee.
John 4:4	And he must needs go through Samaria.
John 4:5	Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
John 4:6	Now Jacob’s well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with [his] journey, sat thus on the well: [and] it was about the sixth hour.
John 4:7	There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.
John 4:8	(For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.)
John 4:9	Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.
John 4:10	Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
John 4:11	The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water?
John 4:12	Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?
John 4:13	Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again:
John 4:14	But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.
John 4:15	The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw.
John 4:16	Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.
John 4:17	The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband:
John 4:18	For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly.
John 4:19	The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
John 4:20	Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.
John 4:21	Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father.
John 4:22	Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for salvation is of the Jews.
John 4:23	But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him.
John 4:24	God [is] a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship [him] in spirit and in truth.
John 4:25	The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things.
John 4:26	Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am [he].
John 4:27	And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman: yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her?
John 4:28	The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men,
John 4:29	Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?
John 4:30	Then they went out of the city, and came unto him.
John 4:31	In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat.
John 4:32	But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.
John 4:33	Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him [ought] to eat?
John 4:34	Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.
John 4:35	Say not ye, There are yet four months, and [then] cometh harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest.
John 4:36	And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.
John 4:37	And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.
John 4:38	I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.
John 4:39	And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did.
John 4:40	So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them: and he abode there two days.
John 4:41	And many more believed because of his own word;
John 4:42	And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard [him] ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world.
John 4:43	Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee.
John 4:44	For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country.
John 4:45	Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast.
John 4:46	So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum.
John 4:47	When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death.
John 4:48	Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe.
John 4:49	The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.
John 4:50	Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way.
John 4:51	And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told [him], saying, Thy son liveth.
John 4:52	Then inquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
John 4:53	So the father knew that [it was] at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house.
John 4:54	This [is] again the second miracle [that] Jesus did, when he was come out of Judaea into Galilee.
John 5:1	After this there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
John 5:2	Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep [market] a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches.
John 5:3	In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
John 5:4	For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had.
John 5:5	And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years.
John 5:6	When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time [in that case], he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole?
John 5:7	The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me.
John 5:8	Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.
John 5:9	And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath.
John 5:10	The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee to carry [thy] bed.
John 5:11	He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk.
John 5:12	Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk?
John 5:13	And he that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in [that] place.
John 5:14	Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee.
John 5:15	The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole.
John 5:16	And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day.
John 5:17	But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work.
John 5:18	Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God.
John 5:19	Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.
John 5:20	For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel.
John 5:21	For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth [them]; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will.
John 5:22	For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son:
John 5:23	That all [men] should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him.
John 5:24	Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.
John 5:25	Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live.
John 5:26	For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself;
John 5:27	And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.
John 5:28	Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,
John 5:29	And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.
John 5:30	I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me.
John 5:31	If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.
John 5:32	There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true.
John 5:33	Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth.
John 5:34	But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say, that ye might be saved.
John 5:35	He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light.
John 5:36	But I have greater witness than [that] of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me.
John 5:37	And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape.
John 5:38	And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not.
John 5:39	Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me.
John 5:40	And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.
John 5:41	I receive not honour from men.
John 5:42	But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.
John 5:43	I am come in my Father’s name, and ye receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive.
John 5:44	How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that [cometh] from God only?
John 5:45	Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is [one] that accuseth you, [even] Moses, in whom ye trust.
John 5:46	For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote of me.
John 5:47	But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?
