John 6:1	After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is [the sea] of Tiberias.
John 6:2	And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased.
John 6:3	And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples.
John 6:4	And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.
John 6:5	When Jesus then lifted up [his] eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat?
John 6:6	And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do.
John 6:7	Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little.
John 6:8	One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, saith unto him,
John 6:9	There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many?
John 6:10	And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.
John 6:11	And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.
John 6:12	When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.
John 6:13	Therefore they gathered [them] together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten.
John 6:14	Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world.
John 6:15	When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone.
John 6:16	And when even was [now] come, his disciples went down unto the sea,
John 6:17	And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them.
John 6:18	And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.
John 6:19	So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship: and they were afraid.
John 6:20	But he saith unto them, It is I; be not afraid.
John 6:21	Then they willingly received him into the ship: and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went.
John 6:22	The day following, when the people which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was none other boat there, save that one whereinto his disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but [that] his disciples were gone away alone;
John 6:23	(Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:)
John 6:24	When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.
John 6:25	And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
John 6:26	Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.
John 6:27	Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.
John 6:28	Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?
John 6:29	Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.
John 6:30	They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work?
John 6:31	Our fathers did eat manna in the desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
John 6:32	Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven.
John 6:33	For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world.
John 6:34	Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.
John 6:35	And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst.
John 6:36	But I said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe not.
John 6:37	All that the Father giveth me shall come to me; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.
John 6:38	For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me.
John 6:39	And this is the Father’s will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day.
John 6:40	And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.
John 6:41	The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven.
John 6:42	And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven?
John 6:43	Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves.
John 6:44	No man can come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.
John 6:45	It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me.
John 6:46	Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God, he hath seen the Father.
John 6:47	Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.
John 6:48	I am that bread of life.
John 6:49	Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead.
John 6:50	This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die.
John 6:51	I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
John 6:52	The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us [his] flesh to eat?
John 6:53	Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you.
John 6:54	Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
John 6:55	For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.
John 6:56	He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.
John 6:57	As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.
John 6:58	This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever.
John 6:59	These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
John 6:60	Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard [this], said, This is an hard saying; who can hear it?
John 6:61	When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you?
John 6:62	[What] and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?
John 6:63	It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, [they] are spirit, and [they] are life.
John 6:64	But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him.
John 6:65	And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it were given unto him of my Father.
John 6:66	From that [time] many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.
John 6:67	Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away?
John 6:68	Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.
John 6:69	And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God.
John 6:70	Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?
John 6:71	He spake of Judas Iscariot [the son] of Simon: for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve.
John 7:1	After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him.
John 7:2	Now the Jews’ feast of tabernacles was at hand.
John 7:3	His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest.
John 7:4	For [there is] no man [that] doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world.
John 7:5	For neither did his brethren believe in him.
John 7:6	Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway ready.
John 7:7	The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil.
John 7:8	Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast; for my time is not yet full come.
John 7:9	When he had said these words unto them, he abode [still] in Galilee.
John 7:10	But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret.
John 7:11	Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he?
John 7:12	And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him: for some said, He is a good man: others said, Nay; but he deceiveth the people.
John 7:13	Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews.
John 7:14	Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught.
John 7:15	And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned?
John 7:16	Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.
John 7:17	If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or [whether] I speak of myself.
John 7:18	He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.
John 7:19	Did not Moses give you the law, and [yet] none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me?
John 7:20	The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee?
John 7:21	Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel.
John 7:22	Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man.
John 7:23	If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day?
John 7:24	Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.
John 7:25	Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill?
John 7:26	But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ?
John 7:27	Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.
John 7:28	Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not.
John 7:29	But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.
John 7:30	Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.
John 7:31	And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this [man] hath done?
John 7:32	The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him.
John 7:33	Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while am I with you, and [then] I go unto him that sent me.
John 7:34	Ye shall seek me, and shall not find [me]: and where I am, [thither] ye cannot come.
John 7:35	Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles?
John 7:36	What [manner of] saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find [me]: and where I am, [thither] ye cannot come?
John 7:37	In the last day, that great [day] of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink.
John 7:38	He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.
John 7:39	(But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet [given]; because that Jesus was not yet glorified.)
John 7:40	Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the Prophet.
John 7:41	Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee?
John 7:42	Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was?
John 7:43	So there was a division among the people because of him.
John 7:44	And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on him.
John 7:45	Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him?
John 7:46	The officers answered, Never man spake like this man.
John 7:47	Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived?
John 7:48	Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?
John 7:49	But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed.
John 7:50	Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them,)
John 7:51	Doth our law judge [any] man, before it hear him, and know what he doeth?
John 7:52	They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet.
John 7:53	And every man went unto his own house.
John 8:1	Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.
John 8:2	And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them.
John 8:3	And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst,
John 8:4	They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.
John 8:5	Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou?
John 8:6	This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with [his] finger wrote on the ground, [as though he heard them not].
John 8:7	So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.
John 8:8	And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.
John 8:9	And they which heard [it], being convicted by [their own] conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, [even] unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.
John 8:10	When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?
John 8:11	She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.
John 8:12	Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
John 8:13	The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself; thy record is not true.
John 8:14	Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, [yet] my record is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go.
John 8:15	Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man.
John 8:16	And yet if I judge, my judgment is true: for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me.
John 8:17	It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true.
John 8:18	I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me.
John 8:19	Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also.
John 8:20	These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was not yet come.
John 8:21	Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins: whither I go, ye cannot come.
John 8:22	Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come.
John 8:23	And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world.
John 8:24	I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if ye believe not that I am [he], ye shall die in your sins.
John 8:25	Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus saith unto them, Even [the same] that I said unto you from the beginning.
John 8:26	I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he that sent me is true; and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him.
John 8:27	They understood not that he spake to them of the Father.
John 8:28	Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am [he], and [that] I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.
John 8:29	And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.
John 8:30	As he spake these words, many believed on him.
John 8:31	Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, [then] are ye my disciples indeed;
John 8:32	And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
John 8:33	They answered him, We be Abraham’s seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?
John 8:34	Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin.
John 8:35	And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: [but] the Son abideth ever.
John 8:36	If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.
John 8:37	I know that ye are Abraham’s seed; but ye seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you.
John 8:38	I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do that which ye have seen with your father.
John 8:39	They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham’s children, ye would do the works of Abraham.
John 8:40	But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham.
John 8:41	Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication; we have one Father, [even] God.
John 8:42	Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but he sent me.
John 8:43	Why do ye not understand my speech? [even] because ye cannot hear my word.
John 8:44	Ye are of [your] father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.
John 8:45	And because I tell [you] the truth, ye believe me not.
John 8:46	Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me?
John 8:47	He that is of God heareth God’s words: ye therefore hear [them] not, because ye are not of God.
John 8:48	Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil?
John 8:49	Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me.
John 8:50	And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.
John 8:51	Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death.
John 8:52	Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death.
John 8:53	Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself?
John 8:54	Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God:
John 8:55	Yet ye have not known him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying.
John 8:56	Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw [it], and was glad.
John 8:57	Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?
John 8:58	Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am.
John 8:59	Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by.
John 9:1	And as [Jesus] passed by, he saw a man which was blind from [his] birth.
John 9:2	And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?
John 9:3	Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him.
John 9:4	I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work.
John 9:5	As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
John 9:6	When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay,
John 9:7	And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing.
John 9:8	The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged?
John 9:9	Some said, This is he: others [said], He is like him: [but] he said, I am [he].
John 9:10	Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened?
John 9:11	He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight.
John 9:12	Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not.
John 9:13	They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind.
John 9:14	And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.
John 9:15	Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.
John 9:16	Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them.
John 9:17	They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet.
John 9:18	But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight.
John 9:19	And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see?
John 9:20	His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:
John 9:21	But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself.
John 9:22	These [words] spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
John 9:23	Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.
John 9:24	Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner.
John 9:25	He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner [or no], I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.
John 9:26	Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes?
John 9:27	He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear [it] again? will ye also be his disciples?
John 9:28	Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses’ disciples.
John 9:29	We know that God spake unto Moses: [as for] this [fellow], we know not from whence he is.
John 9:30	The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and [yet] he hath opened mine eyes.
John 9:31	Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.
John 9:32	Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind.
John 9:33	If this man were not of God, he could do nothing.
John 9:34	They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out.
John 9:35	Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?
John 9:36	He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him?
John 9:37	And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee.
John 9:38	And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.
John 9:39	And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind.
John 9:40	And [some] of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also?
John 9:41	Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth.
